chain reaction television along with
almost 500 writers took in the sixth
race of the plastic glass Ontario Cup
cross-country series held at kelso
conservation area on august seven
you
come on folks it's just a mountain bike
race some people one some people lost it
was rainy and muddy the Sun chemo and it
got hot we all had a good time yadda
yadda yadda let's talk about what
everybody's really thinking but nobody
wants to talk about it's the elephant in
the room they gravely climb up the
Niagara Escarpment yes we're going to
confront the monster this climb is the
best part of a kilometer and as sections
of up to fifteen percent grade although
with some neat camerawork we can
actually make it look even steeper the
steepness is not the real problem it's
the gravel that's the devilish part it's
not nice fine gravel but large chunky 2
to 3-inch pieces of rough loose rock and
it sucks the energy right out of your
legs
it can bus chains and rip tires and
sometimes it's been said to even make
writers cry a low and my defense my eyes
were just tearing up because of the dust
honest
older car the race organizers Chico
racing realized the enormity of the
crime and set up writer support and
encouragement stopping at the top of the
steepest section there's no doubt the
soothing and supportive voice of Shawn
rupal help struggling writers make it
over the top after we heard a girl
berger year we asked some finishing
writers what they thought of the gravely
claim and here's what they had to say I
think it's awesome it's really sets the
the pace and it separates the group read
a bit it's pretty tough no legs for that
today I mean it's tough there was just
so super long that was it was hard it
made your legs burn too steep to loose
and too long I thought it was pretty
tough but in a strange way it was
actually kind of fun um I reelected
actually it was robert wyman something I
have to take easy my way and it's hard
to do I'm just glad it's in the shade I
was pretty brutal over there in the heat
but you know it's a grunt assignments my
favorite course the year so I enjoyed it
as you can see the opinions were all
over the ice about the climb so we went
to one of the race experts to get the
final word what did you think of the
gravelly climb today well it's a when I
was racing it was a bit slippery you had
to be
on the back of your sheet right a bit
and kind of take the right line keep I
like it giant eels aren't really my
friend there you have it folks the climb
is not our friend but nonetheless we
keep coming back for more see you next
year oh and congratulations to Mitch
Bailey of track Canada the men's elite
winner Michaela Kaufman of three rocks
racing for taking the woman's elite and
mark Antonin adone the men's junior
winner they will all be representing
Canada at the upcoming World
Championships and Switzerland stay tuned
for more Canadian cycling coverage from
chain reaction television